doc(k8s): guide for using baremetal with Kosmos cluster (#1778)
scaleway/terraform-provider-scaleway: docs/guides/multicloud_cluster_with_baremetal_servers.md

```hcl
resource "scaleway_k8s_cluster" "multicloud" {
  name    = "multicloud-cluster"
  type    = "multicloud"
  version = "1.26.0"
  cni     = "kilo"
  region  = "fr-par"
  delete_additional_resources = false
}

resource "scaleway_k8s_pool" "pool" {
  cluster_id  = scaleway_k8s_cluster.multicloud.id
  name        = "multicloud-pool"
  node_type   = "external"
  size        = 1
  region      = "fr-par"
}

resource "scaleway_baremetal_server" "server" {
  offer       = "EM-B112X-SSD"
  os          = "03b7f4ba-a6a1-4305-984e-b54fafbf1681" # Ubuntu_focal
  ssh_key_ids = [scaleway_iam_ssh_key.key.id]
  zone        = "fr-par-2"
}

resource "scaleway_iam_ssh_key" "key" {
  name = "ssh-key"
  public_key = file("~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub")
}
```

NB: `kilo` is the only CNI compatible with multicloud clusters

NB: if you want to link any already existing resource, you can import it to the Terraform state by running :

```bash
terraform import <scaleway_resource_type> <locality>/<id>
```

## Configure the Elastic Metal server

1. Get your server's public IP and SSH to the server :

    ```bash
    ssh <user>@<baremetal_server_ip>
    ```

2. Download the multicloud-init script :

    ```bash

>     wget https://scwcontainermulticloud.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/multicloud-init.sh && chmod +x multicloud-init.sh`

Reviewer: Can we use the [remote-exec provisioner](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/provisioners/remote-exec) to do this?

Author: It is indeed possible, I've added an alternate method of configuration. Thanks for the hint ;)

---
page_title: "Using Elastic Metal servers in a Kubernetes cluster"
description: |-
How to add and/or run Scaleway baremetal servers as nodes on a multicloud Kubernetes cluster
---

# How to use Elastic Metal servers with a Kosmos multicloud cluster

> In this guide you will learn how to deploy baremetal nodes on your Kubernetes cluster instead of instances. To be able

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide you will learn how to deploy bare metal nodes on your Kubernetes cluster Instead of instances. To be able
```

to do this, you need to have a [Kosmos multicloud cluster](../resources/k8s_cluster.md#multicloud) instead of a Kapsule
cluster, and add your [pools](../resources/k8s_pool.md) as the "external" node type.

## Prerequisites

* An SSH key, required to connect to your Elastic Metal server.
    * If you need help generating an SSH key, visit [this tutorial](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/).
    * You can view your SSH keys in the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/project/credentials) and add a new one.

## Setup

```hcl
resource "scaleway_k8s_cluster" "multicloud" {
  name    = "multicloud-cluster"
  type    = "multicloud"
  version = "1.26.0"
  cni     = "kilo"
  region  = "fr-par"
  delete_additional_resources = false
}

resource "scaleway_k8s_pool" "pool" {
  cluster_id  = scaleway_k8s_cluster.multicloud.id
  name        = "multicloud-pool"
  node_type   = "external"
  size        = 1
  region      = "fr-par"
}

resource "scaleway_baremetal_server" "server" {
  offer       = "EM-B112X-SSD"                          # The name of the Elastic Metal offer

>   os          = "03b7f4ba-a6a1-4305-984e-b54fafbf1681"  # The ID of the OS, here the ID is for ubuntu_focal

Reviewer 3: Could you use a data source to inject this data?

datasources. Ths will also allow you to check their availability in the zone you want to work with.
    * See the [baremetal offer datasource](../data-sources/baremetal_offer.md)
    * See the [baremetal os datasource](../data-sources/baremetal_os.md)
    * For more information on baremetal servers specs, visit the [resource documentation](../resources/baremetal_server.md)
* If you want to link any already existing resource, you can import it to the Terraform state by running :

   ```bash
   terraform import <scaleway_resource_type> <locality>/<id>
   ```

## Configure the Elastic Metal server

1. Get your server's public IP and SSH to the server :

    ```bash
    ssh <user>@<baremetal_server_ip>
    ```

2. Download the multicloud-init script :

    ```bash
    wget https://scwcontainermulticloud.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/multicloud-init.sh && chmod +x multicloud-init.sh`
    ```

3. Export the required environment variables :

    ```bash
    export POOL_ID=<pool_id>  REGION=<cluster_region>  SCW_SECRET_KEY=<secret_key>`
    ```

4. Execute the script to attach the node to the multicloud pool :

    ```bash
    sudo ./multicloud-init.sh -p $POOL_ID -r $REGION -t $SCW_SECRET_KEY

>     ```

Reviewer 3: How can you check that it worked? Could you add commands to verify that the elastic metal was successfully added to the node of the cluster? Would they be in a dedicated pool?

Author: I've added a section explaining a few methods to check that the installation was successful, but I was not able to find a way to check the remote-exec command's success, that's why I added a log file to help users debug if anything goes wrong.
Regarding the pool, the server will be added to the pool which ID is given to the multicloud-init script via the POOL_ID environment variable.
